Hurricane Milton Headed for Landfall: What to Know

Mayors of several Florida cities have issued states of emergency as Milton, now a Category 4 hurricane, barrels toward the coast.

Hurricane Milton continues to progress toward Florida’s western Gulf coast, where it is projected to make landfall on Wednesday night — bringing high levels of storm surge, wind and rain to a region still reeling from the aftermath of Hurricane Helene a little over a week ago.

This latest storm, which was downgraded from a Category 5 to a Category 4 hurricane early Tuesday morning, is still “forecast to retain major hurricane status” with maximum sustained wind speeds of 150 miles per hour, according to an 11 a.m. EDT advisory from the National Hurricane Center. Milton is expected to continue fluctuating in intensity as it moves eastward, but still be an “extremely dangerous” hurricane during landfall in Florida.

According to CNN, the threats to Florida’s Gulf Coast stretch from the cities of Cedar Key to Naples, and could possibly impact Tampa Bay, which saw 12 people lose their lives during Helene in nearby Pinellas County and left many more trying to recover from it. But with a second potentially life-threatening hurricane on its way, Florida is having to declare another state of emergency, advise large-scale evacuations and shut down airports and schools once again.

Here’s what to know:

Where Is Hurricane Milton Now?

The storm as of the latest advisory was approximately 520 miles southwest of Tampa moving eastward at 9 miles per hour, according to the National Hurricane Center.

Milton is forecast to move eastward through the Gulf of Mexico on Tuesday, where it is then expected to approach Florida’s west-central coast by Wednesday. Landfall is expected on Wednesday night.

Milton rapidly progressed from a tropical storm on Saturday to a Category 1 hurricane on Sunday, and quickly developed from a Category 3 to a Category 5 hurricane in a little under five hours on Monday, the most dangerous level of a hurricane based on the Saffir-Simpson scale.

What Is Milton’s Projected Path?

Following the storm’s forecast landfall in Florida on Wednesday, it is expected to travel across central Florida through Thursday and move into the Atlantic Ocean. This means that Florida will likely be the only state to experience the brunt of Milton’s wrath, though storm surge along the Atlantic coast of Florida and Georgia is projected to be between 2 to 5 feet, with South Carolina’s coast near Charleston expecting to get 1 to 3 feet of storm surge.

With the eye of the storm in Florida, places like Tampa Bay may see 10 to 15 feet of storm surge due to Milton – more than doubling Helene’s level of storm surge.

Places in the central to northern parts of the Florida peninsula could see 5 to 12 inches of rain, with some areas potentially getting up to 18 inches of rain. Such immense downpours pose a threat of urban and flash flooding, as well as the risk of overflowing rivers.

In addition, the possibility of “a few tornadoes” in central and southern Florida between the nights of Tuesday and Wednesday have been forecast, according to the National Hurricane Center.

Have Emergencies and Evacuations Been Ordered?

On Saturday, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis issued a state of emergency in 35 counties ahead of Hurricane Milton’s predicted landfall, and the governor expanded the order to cover 51 counties as of Monday.

In preparation for the storm, on Tuesday DeSantis said on X that the state has “deployed thousands of guardsmen and dozens of (search and rescue) aircraft … over 300 ambulances; more than 11,000 feet of flood protection barriers; and we have an additional 1.2 million gallons of fuel coming to Central Florida.” He also said there are 37,000 linemen ready to help with potential power outages due to Milton.

President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration for Florida on Monday, nearly two weeks after doing so for Hurricane Helene. Later that day, Biden and DeSantis spoke with each other about the upcoming hurricane. In contrast, DeSantis reportedly refused calls with Vice President Kamala Harris about hurricane recovery after Helene.

According to Florida’s division of emergency management, 26 counties have been given evacuation orders ranging from mandatory to voluntary to recommended depending on the kind of home someone may be living in, such as mobile homes or houseboats, as of early Tuesday afternoon.

The mayors in the cities of Orlando, Tampa and Miami, among others, have issued states of emergencies.

“There’s never been one like this,” Tampa Mayor Jane Castor said about Hurricane Milton in a Monday evening interview with CNN. She added that while “Helene was a wake-up call,” Milton is “literally catastrophic, and I can say without any dramatization whatsoever, if you choose to stay in one of those evacuation areas, you’re going to die.”
